---
tags:
  - test
  - intermediate
links:
source:
aliases:
---

> [!WARNING] 
> The articles and guides related to Testing refer to testing a backend based on [[Node.js]].

In software development, writing and using tests is a common practice to ensure that changes to a software component do not introduce unexpected behavior and that the results generated by the program still match expectations. In [[SAP Capire|CAP]], testing can play a key role in maintaining the reliability and stability of applications, particularly for [[Node.js]]-based backends and reduce manual testing efforts by automating this process.

There are different types of tests, each targeting specific layers of the application and providing distinct benefits:
- **Unit Tests** focus on individual functions or methods in isolation. They are fast to run and help developers catch errors early, ensuring that each component behaves as intended.
- **Integration Tests** validate the interaction between multiple components, such as services, databases, or APIs, ensuring that combined functionality works correctly.
- **End-to-End (E2E) Tests** simulate real user scenarios by testing the entire application workflow. These tests provide confidence that the system meets business requirements and behaves correctly under realistic conditions.

By incorporating these tests, developers can detect issues systematically, reduce regression errors, and improve code quality over time. While writing tests may require upfront effort, they ultimately save time by preventing defects in production and making refactoring safer. The [[SAP Capire]] framework provides built-in support and best practices for integrating tests into the development workflow, making testing both accessible and valuable for developers.

The following roadmaps offer useful short insights into testing in backend development:
 - [roadmap.sh - Backend](https://roadmap.sh/backend)
 - [roadmap.sh - Node.js](https://roadmap.sh/nodejs)