#Intermediate 
The ATC enforces standards by ensuring compliance with guidelines such as coding conventions and best practices and serves as an automatic quality assurance system for transports. It checks the objects contained in a transport centrally against quality, performance and security rules and can block release or import in the event of critical findings of priorities 1 and 2. This enables early detection of errors and target system incompatibilities, reducing risks and rework. Only in rare cases can requests be submitted to allow these findings to remain in a transport. These requests are reviewed by an ATC reviewer. Such cases may, for example, involve the history of legacy code or conflicts with SAP standards.

While it may be tempting to enable as many ATC rules as possible, doing so noticeably increases the runtime of transport checks and can impede throughput. Therefore, transport checks should focus on the most important aspects—those that are high-risk and difficult to change later. These include security and performance checks as well as global naming and API conflicts. A practical example is global variable names or identifiers that may already be used elsewhere and could later lead to conflicts or side effects.

During the release cycle, Transport of Copies (ToC) are imported into the Quality Management (QM) system for testing purposes. In this phase, only task-level ATC checks are executed at task release. After testing is successful, the original transport request undergoes the full ATC check at request release and, if it passes, it is released. It is recommended to manually run the ATC check variant before releasing the transport to reduce the number of issues at release time. 
# Resources
#website [Central Quality Checking with the ATC | SAP Help Portal](https://help.sap.com/docs/ABAP_PLATFORM_NEW/ba879a6e2ea04d9bb94c7ccd7cdac446/3f1a866ced26445cbfb8e1f896f86dfb.html?locale=en-US)
#website [Configuring ATC in a Consolidation System | SAP Help Portal](https://help.sap.com/docs/ABAP_PLATFORM_NEW/ba879a6e2ea04d9bb94c7ccd7cdac446/73473fd593fc417ba7a6367423f1e535.html?locale=en-US)
#Article [Getting Started with the ABAP Test Cockpit for Dev... - SAP Community](https://community.sap.com/t5/application-development-and-automation-blog-posts/getting-started-with-the-abap-test-cockpit-for-developers/ba-p/13232141)
